---
layout: post
title:  "Struggling Student Doesn't Fail Github"
author: Rachel Miles
description: My first blog post :D
image: /assets/images/blog-image.jpg
---

Hey! First Post! Somehow I managed to clone a respository and not lose files between pushing and pulling from my local machine to the Github server! Success!

This will be a quick tutorial on how to use the basic commands of Git/github to create commits and to make branches.

Here's some of the commands you'll want to know:
git init
git add
git commit
git branch

Each stage has an important part to play when creating commits. The best way to think of each step is if you think of your project as a theatre performance. Your repository is yoru stage, with the actors and actresses and lights and costumes. It has everything you could possibly need for your project. Your commits are your rehearsals, helping you to prepare for the final performance, which is your project. Each of these commands are impoartant steps in developing your final product. 

Now for a quick overview on what each of these do.

Git Init
Git init is the most basic command you can get. Without it, everything thing else isn't going to work. If you're wondering why none of the rest of the commands have worked, it's most likely because you forgot to initalize the repository with git init. You only have to do it once, but make sure you do it. It's embarassing to tyoe several commands into the command line and tear your hair out when all you needed was to do this one step. Trust me, check and make sure you've done it, and then you don't have to worry about it every again.
Git Init is where you've booked the stage, hired the actors, and have the script. You're already halfway there!

Git Add
So you initialized your repository! Now what? Now it's time for the real stuff. Once you've got your files set up in the repository, you can put them into a seperate area in git that prepares it for the commit stage. Git add is like organizing everything together and deciding what to rehearse first. Need some lines run? Prepare the actors to go on stage! Does the music need to be practiced? Tell the orchestra to warm up! This is the organizeing to get the rehearsal started! You're organizing your files in the right place so they're read to be committed!

Git Commit
This command is for doing the actual commiting. You've organized your files, and now you want to save the changes. You've done the rehersal, and now you want everyone to remember what they've practiced. 

Git Branch
Sometimes you're not going to want to change everything you just saved. The amount of times I've changed something just to change it back is a real struggle. Undo is my best friend. What git branch does is give you space to experiment with new stuff away from the stuff you changed. If you like it, lets save it and add it back to the original stuff. If you don't, no worries, it doesn't bother anyone. 
Git branch is like if you want to practice with just the actors but not the orchestra, or vice versa. It's taking a piece of the stuff you're working on and allowing you to workshop it in an isolated space. 


Good luck on your committing!
